## What is Routing?
### Routing is the process that routers use to determine the path that IP packets should take over a network to reach their destination
- Routers store routes to all their known destinations in a **Routing Table**.
- When routers receive packets, they look in the routing table to find the best route to forward that packet.
- There are two main routing methods
	- **Dynamic Routing**: Routers use *dynamic routing* protocols (i.e. OSPF) to share routing informaiton with each other automatically and build their routing tables.
		- Covered later in course
	- **Static Routing**: A network engineer/admin manually configures routes on the router.
		- Covered later in video
	- a **route** tells the router: *to send a packet to destination X, you should send the packet to **next-hop** Y.* 
		- or, if the destination is directly connected ot the router, *send the packet directly*
		- or, if the destination is the oruter's own IP address, *receive the packet for yourself (don't forward it).*
	
- **Next-hop**: the next router in the path to the destination
- **WAN (Wide Area Network)**: a network that extends over a large geographical area.
#### R1#show ip route
- the "Codes" legend in the output of **show ip route** lists the different protocols which routers can use to learn routes.
	- **L - Local**: A route connected to the actual IP address configures onthe interface (with a /32 netmask)
		- /32 used to specify exact IP address
			- /32 means all 32 bits are 'fixed', they can't change
	- **C - Connected**: A route to the network the interface is connected to. (With the actual netmask configured on the interface)
- When you configure an IP address on an interface and enable it with **no shutdown**, 2 routes (per interface) will automatically (*not dynamically*) be added to the routing table:
	- a **connected** route
		- Goes to the whole network address
	- a **local** route
		- Goes to exact IP address configured on the interface
## Route Selection
- a route **matches** a packet's destination if the packet's destination IP address is part of the network specified in the route.
- **most specific** matching route = the *matching route* with the **longest prefix length**.
	- i.e. 192.168.1.0 /24 includes 256 IP addresses
		- 192.168.1.1 **/32** includes ***only 1 IP address***.
[[routing-variably_subnetted_routes.png]]
### Route Selection Practice
[[routing_practice_1.png]]
1) Dst. IP 192.168.1.1
	- receive for itself
2) Dst. IP 192.168.13.3
	- send the packet to tmost specific route (connected to g0/0)
3) Dst. IP 192.168.1.244
	- send the packet to most specific (g0/2)
4) Dst. IP 192.168.12.1
	- receive for itself
5) Dst. 192.168.4.10
	- no matching routes, drop the packet
### Routers NEVER flood packets.
#### They simply drop them.